It's pretty obvious when a software program crashes.
You get an error, and the program stops running.
However, there are many problems that could occur in the data science process
that aren't as easily detectable as a functional error that crashes your program.
All of your code can seem to run smoothly with you completely
unaware that certain values will be encoded incorrectly,
features are being used inappropriately,
or unexpected data were breaking assumptions that your statistical models are based on.
These errors are more difficult to find because you have to check for
the quality and accuracy of your analysis in addition to the quality of your code.
Therefore, it's essential that you had proper testing
to avoid unexpected surprises and have confidence in your results.
In fact, testing has proven to have so many benefits that there's
an entire development process based on it called Test Driven Development.
This is a development process where you write test for
tasks before you even write the code to implement those tasks.
We'll talk more about this later.
For now, we will get some practice writing tests, specifically unit test.
A unit test is a type of test that covers a unit of code,
usually a single function independently from the rest of the program.
First, you'll learn how to write unit tests in plain Python,
and then how we can use additional tools to make them better.
Finally, you'll see examples of types of tests you will see in data science.